First cut at the DPoP-Inspired Authentication section (#19)
yaronf/wimse-s2s: draft-sheffer-wimse-s2s-protocol.md

## Option 1: DPoP-Inspired Authentication {#dpop-esque-auth}

This option, inspired by the OAuth DPoP specification {{?RFC9449}}, uses a DPoP-like mechanism to authenticate
the calling workload in the context of the request. The WIMSE Identity Token {{to-wit}} is sent in the request as
described in {{wit-http-header}}. An additional JWT, the Workload Proof Token (WPT), is signed by the private key
corresponding to the public key in the WIT. The WPT is sent in the `Workload-Proof-Token` header field of the request.
A WPT contains the following:

* in the JOSE header:
    * `alg`: An identifier for an appropriate JWS asymmetric digital signature algorithm corresponding to
     the confirmation key in the associated WIT.
    * `typ`: the WPT is explicitly typed, as recommended in {{Section 3.11 of RFC8725}},
     using the `application/wimse-proof+jwt` media type.
* in the JWT claims:
    * `iss`: The issuer of the token, which is the calling workload, represented by the same value as the `sub` claim

>      of the associated WIT.

Reviewer: You might want to also include the hash of the WIT in the proof of possession.  Perhaps just having the full name is good enough, but I think you want to account for the issuer of the WIT as well in the signature.

Author: > You might want to also include the hash of the WIT in the proof of possession. 

What purpose would that serve? Asking for a friend. 

> Perhaps just having the full name is good enough, but I think you want to account for the issuer of the WIT as well in the signature.

I don't think I follow the thinking here...

Author: action from the call was to put in an issue for further discussion and proceed without a WIT hash for now

Author: issue here https://github.com/yaronf/wimse-s2s/issues/24 for posterity and resolving this conversation

    * `aud`: The audience of the token contains the the HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) of the request

>      to which the WPT is attached, without query or fragment parts.

Reviewer 2: Why isn't `aud` the WIMSE identity of the target? Wouldn't that be more consistent?

Author: That, to me, begs a larger philosophical and scoping question about naming and addressing and identity, which is beyond my competence. And in that lacking of competence, I've used an existing, well-known, and widely used means of identifying the target of an HTTP request.

Reviewer 2: Hmmph, let's discuss offline. In the meantime, please remove the redundant "the" from the sentence.

Author: done 06948498e55d9cdf8eccc34fc00c2c7c135f2cc0 and looking forward to a lively discussion

>     * `iat`: The time at which the token was created (as defined in {{Section 4.1.6 of RFC7519}}).

Author: Consider exp rather than iat

Author: done w/ 26dff3d954a018216c69f66dce18274ee7f56c1d

    * `jti`: A unique identifier for the token.
    * `ctx_token_hash`: Hash of the OAuth access token, Transaction Token {{?I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens}},
     or other token in the request that might convey end-user identity and authorization context of the request.
     The value MUST be the result of a base64url encoding (as defined in {{Section 2 of RFC7515}}) the SHA-256 hash of
     the ASCII encoding of the associated token's value.

> 

Reviewer: Can there be more than one context token hash?  would this need to be specified as an array or can you have multiple of the same claim in the jwt?

Author: > Can there be more than one context token hash? 

This is a good question that I asked myself while writing the above. But didn't have a great sense for so opted for the simple answer of just one. 

The whole construct is admittedly somewhat awkward - trying to account/allow for different kinds of tokens that might show up in different places. 

 
> would this need to be specified as an array or can you have multiple of the same claim in the jwt?

Multiple of the same claim in the jwt is not allowed (see https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519#section-4) so an array is how that kind of data is expressed.

Author: But maybe a few different claims that conditionally show up would be a better approach. Like `ath` access token hash - a la https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9449.html#section-4.2-6.2 - and then `txth` transaction token hash and maybe an oth for *other* token hash...

Author: Currently rethinking the construct

Reviewer 2: Although we can definitely punt on it for now, I think we could choose a construct that's both simple and extensible.

```json
"signed_headers": {
    "txn-token": "txn token hash",
    "x-custom-context": "x-custom-context hash"
}
```

Unfortunately we need the WPT to sign miscellaneous stuff, because we don't want a new WIT for every call. Having said that, as far as I can tell it does NOT need to sign the WIT itself.

Author: https://github.com/yaronf/wimse-s2s/issues/25

Author: Created issue #25 from @yaronf's comment and c5b46a1d06829b5ec435f143d16d57a478003706 tries to do this in a somewhat better way.

Content-Type: application/json
Authorization: Bearer 16_mAd0GiwaZokU26_0902100
Workload-Identity-Token: eyJ0eXAiOiJ3aW1zZS1pZCtqd3QiLCJhbGciOiJFUzI1
 NiIsImtpZCI6Ikp1bmUgNSJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ3aW1zZTovL2V4YW1wbGUuY29tL3RydXN
 0ZWQtY2VudHJhbC1hdXRob3JpdHkiLCJleHAiOjE3MTc2MTI0NzAsInN1YiI6IndpbXN
 lOi8vZXhhbXBsZS5jb20vc3BlY2lmaWMtd29ya2xvYWQiLCJqdGkiOiJ4LV8xQ1RMMmN
 jYTNDU0U0Y3diX18iLCJjbmYiOnsiandrIjp7Imt0eSI6Ik9LUCIsImNydiI6IkVkMjU
 1MTkiLCJ4IjoiX2FtUkMzWXJZYkhoSDFSdFlyTDhjU21URE1oWXRPVVRHNzhjR1RSNWV
 6ayJ9fX0.rOSUMR8I5WhM5C704l3iVdY0zFqxhugJ8Jo2xo39G7FqUTbwTzAGdpz2lHp
 6eL1M486XmRgl3uyjj6R_iuzNOA
Workload-Proof-Token: eyJ0eXAiOiJ3aW1zZS1wcm9vZitqd3QiLCJhbGciOiJFZER
 TQSJ9.eyJpc3MiOiJ3aW1zZTovL2V4YW1wbGUuY29tL3NwZWNpZmljLXdvcmtsb2FkIi
 wiYXVkIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9zZXJ2aWNlLmV4YW1wbGUuY29tL3BhdGgiLCJpYXQiOjE3MT
 c2MTI1NDUsImp0aSI6Il9fYndjNEVTQzNhY2MyTFRDMS1feCIsImN0eF90b2tlbl9oYX
 NoIjoiQ0w0d2pmcFJtTmYtYmRZSWJZTG5WOWQ1ck1BUkd3S1lFMTB3VXd6QzBqSSJ9.Y
 VS0gGOnsCK5xWhE9lcRzp0CDplTGLDv3lUK4dSF_o2uw2wh6I2FOwsa0OmUMeTAr-qO0
 bJJBjSOy64UKBekCg

{"do stuff":"please"}
~~~
{: title="Example HTTP Request with WIT and WPT"}

To validate the WPT in the request, the recipient MUST ensure the following:

> * There is not more than one `Workload-Proof-Token` header field in the request.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There is exactly one `Workload-Proof-Token` header field in the request.
```

* The `Workload-Proof-Token` header field value is a single and well-formed JWT.
* The WPT signature is valid using the public key from the confirmation claim of the WIT.
* The `typ` JOSE header parameter of the WPT conveys a media type of `wimse-proof+jwt`.
* The `iss` claim of the WPT matches the `sub` claim of the WIT. (note: not sure `iss` in the WPT is necessary)
* The `aud` claim of the WPT matches the target URI, or an acceptable alias or normalization thereof, of the HTTP request

>  in which the WPT was received, ignoring any query and fragment parts.

Reviewer 2: Man, what's a poor implementer to do with "an acceptable alias or normalization thereof"?

Reviewer 2: Let's keep it for now and I will open an issue.

Author: #26 for the folks playing along at home

## Option 1: DPoP-Inspired Authentication {#dpop-esque-auth}

This option, inspired by the OAuth DPoP specification {{?RFC9449}}, uses a DPoP-like mechanism to authenticate
the calling workload in the context of the request. The WIMSE Identity Token {{to-wit}} is sent in the request as
described in {{wit-http-header}}. An additional JWT, the Workload Proof Token (WPT), is signed by the private key
corresponding to the public key in the WIT. The WPT is sent in the `Workload-Proof-Token` header field of the request.
A WPT contains the following:

* in the JOSE header:
    * `alg`: An identifier for an appropriate JWS asymmetric digital signature algorithm corresponding to
     the confirmation key in the associated WIT.
    * `typ`: the WPT is explicitly typed, as recommended in {{Section 3.11 of RFC8725}},
     using the `application/wimse-proof+jwt` media type.
* in the JWT claims:
    * `iss`: The issuer of the token, which is the calling workload, represented by the same value as the `sub` claim
     of the associated WIT.

>     * `aud`: The audience of the token contains the the HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) of the request

Author: pizza pizza
```suggestion
    * `aud`: The audience of the token contains the HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) of the request
```

     using the `application/wimse-proof+jwt` media type.
* in the JWT claims:
    * `iss`: The issuer of the token, which is the calling workload, represented by the same value as the `sub` claim
     of the associated WIT.
    * `aud`: The audience of the token contains the HTTP target URI ({{Section 7.1 of RFC9110}}) of the request
     to which the WPT is attached, without query or fragment parts.
    * `exp`: The expiration time of the WIT (as defined in {{Section 4.1.4 of RFC7519}}). WPT lifetimes MUST be short,
     e.g., on the order of minutes or seconds.
    * `jti`: A unique identifier for the token.
    * `ath`: Hash of the OAuth access token, if present in the request, which might convey end-user identity and
     authorization context of the request. The value, as per {{Section 4.1 of RFC9449}},
     is the base64url encoding of the SHA-256 hash of the ASCII encoding of the access token's value.
    * `tth`: Hash of the Txn-Token {{?I-D.ietf-oauth-transaction-tokens}}, if present in the request,
     which might convey end-user identity and authorization context of the request. The value MUST be the result of

>      a base64url encoding (as defined in {{Section 2 of RFC7515}}) the SHA-256 hash of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     a base64url encoding (as defined in {{Section 2 of RFC7515}}) of the SHA-256 hash of
```

     the ASCII encoding of the associated token's value.
    * `oth`: Hash of any other token in the request that might convey end-user identity and authorization context of the

>      request. The value MUST be the result of a base64url encoding (as defined in {{Section 2 of RFC7515}}) the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     request. The value MUST be the result of a base64url encoding (as defined in {{Section 2 of RFC7515}}) of the
```
